APIs:
    waiter hhhhhhh
    interface that client app can use to talk to backend
    it can ahve endpoints foe certain Data
    it can be used to perform CRUD operations on data
    it can be used to perform authentication and authorization
    it can be used to perform data validation and serialization
    it can be used to perform data filtering and pagination
    it can be used to perform data caching and optimization

resful:
    representational state transfer
    it defines certain rules that allows clients and server to communicate over IntersectionObserverEntry

concepts:
    resources
    representations
    methods

resources:
    like an object in AudioParamMap, i,e. products, cart Etc 
    availibkle on web and client apps can access them using a URL

url:
    uniform resource locater 
    basically a web ocater that points to a resource
    it can be used to perform CRUD operations on data



now we can identify a resource suing a url the server gonna return in certain formate that cpmes in representation


representations:
    the way a resource is represented when it is sent to the client or received from the client
    it can be in JSON, XML, HTML, etc


    JSON:
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Product 1",
        "price": 10.99
    }




methods/http methods:
    the actions that can be performed on a resource
    it can be:
         GET, 
         POST, 
         PUT, 
         DELETE, 
         patch, -> updating part of data like sunset of properties /prod/1/ -> update price only
         etc


RSET:   
    representational state transfer ia an architectural design style that provides guidelines for buuilding scalable, 
    reliable, and effiecient networked systems

        or

    it is a set guidlines or rules.


REST API:
    a rest/restfull api is an api that follows the rest architectural style, allowing systems to communicate and msg 
    resources using HTTP.


Why we need REST:
    so modern architectural we only send the data from server(usually in JSON) and let the client (both mob/web) decide 
    how it should be displayed

    instead of sending HTML from the server, we only send the data 
    the HTTP request is done by rest api

Data:
    the data is return is json formate 
        the json only provides data while HTML also provide the structure of the page but we don't need in this architectural 
        as the page layout is defined frontend tools


Core Principle of REST:
    (1) client AND SERVER ARE INDEPENDANT entities as they have nothing to do with each other like server does not care hove the 
    data is presented in frontend etc 
            client handels the interface, server handles the data and logic 
            communication only occurs through standardized requests and responces.

    (2) Statelessness-each request is self contained, carrying all the information the server needs. The server does not store 
    client context between requets/don't remember the request-each request is brand new.

    (3) Cacheability-responces must indicates wheter they are cacheable. Proper caching improves performance, reduces load and 
    enhance network efficiency-by sending fever request to the server.
        -> data that changes frequently should not be cached like live stock prices etc
    
    (4) Layered system - the server can have hierarchial layers(load balncer, cache, security, other intermediaries). the client 
    interact only with layer it sees, unaware of others, improving scalability and security(the client doesn't needa know where 
    the rquest goes, i tonly cares about the data recieved).

    (5) Code on demand - optionally server can send excutable code to extend client functionality. this is optional, not requires 
    for rest and often avoided.

    (6) Uniform Interface - Heart of the REST
        a) resource identification in URLs - every resource has a unique url/endpoint.
            i.e: post/ -> all posts 
                 posts/1/ -> post with id 1
                
        b) standard HTTP methods - use HTTp verbs/methods consistently: GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE.


    urls represents resources(nouns), NOT actions(verbs)
        GET/getAllPosts/  ==> incorrect
        correct => noun + HTTP method ==> GET/posts/


        c) Self-Descriptive Messages - each request and responce contains all needed info.

        d) HATEOAS - HYPERMEDIS AS the engine of applications state - responces can include link to guide the client on next actions
         in simple the server can include links in the responce, and the user can understand what acrions are possible here  


Server-Client communication - so the client send a http request through a url/endpoint based on what action he wanna take, on the serverb 
defined the endpoints and whenever it hitted the server will perform the specified action and will return the data in responce




how we can create rest apis using django => using django rest framework 
